Skinning Tutorial/osu!mania: rewrite (#1822)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Skinning_Tutorial/osu!mania/en.md

# osu!mania

> This article assumes you are using [skin version](/wiki/skin.ini#versions) `2.5` or higher. Since the skin configuration heavily affects osu!mania skinning, this article will discuss both cases: using the default values (henceforth referred to as "basic") and modifying the skin configuration (henceforth referred to as "advanced").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses [skin version](/wiki/skin.ini#versions) `2.5` or higher. Since the skin configuration heavily affects osu!mania skinning, this tutorial will discuss both cases: using the default values (henceforth referred to as "basic") and modifying the skin configuration (henceforth referred to as "advanced").
```

## Skin configuration

*See also: [skin.ini](/wiki/skin.ini)*

When editing the skin configuration file, keep the following in mind:

-   The skin version should be set to `2.5`.
-   Positioning height-wise is based on a max-height of 480 pixels; the value used will be scaled across all game clients so it should be consistent for all players.
-   Columns are identified with index 0 from left to right. Meaning that the first column from the left is 0, the second is 1, the third is 2, etc. (See image below.)
    -   Keys, notes, and hold notes use the same column numbers they are part of to identify themselves. Meaning that keys, notes, and hold notes inside column 2 will also use 2.

![4K stage with column numbers](img/column_numbers.jpg "The first far-left column is 0, not 1")

-   Each key count that is skinned must have its own section in the skin configuration.
-   When defining an image's location and/or name, copy the path from the your skin's folder (not from `Skins/`, but the folder name after that) and remove the file's extension.
-   If the stage is upside-down, you are given the option to tell osu! to flip keys and/or notes vertically.

---

> The sections below are only affected when making changes to the skin configurtation. Thus, basic sections will talk about default behaviours while advanced sections will talk about changing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sections below are only affected when making changes to the skin configuration. Thus, basic sections will talk about default behaviours while advanced sections will talk about changing it.
```

|   |   +-- keyUD.png
|   |   +-- keyR.png
|   |   +-- keyRD.png
|   +-- skin.ini
```

Your skin configuration:

```ini
[Mania]
Keys: 5

KeyImage0: mania/keyL
KeyImage0D: mania/keyLD

KeyImage1: mania/keyD
KeyImage1D: mania/keyDD

KeyImage2: mania/keyC
KeyImage2D: mania/keyCD

KeyImage3: mania/keyU
KeyImage3D: mania/keyUD

KeyImage4: mania/keyR
KeyImage4D: mania/keyRD
```

To break that down, let's look at the first column, `KeyImage0`:

```
KeyImage0: mania/keyL
KeyImage0D: mania/keyLD
```

-   `KeyImage0` says that the first column's key image (idle state) is located in a folder called `mania/` and the image name is `keyL`.
-   `KeyImage0D` says that the first column's key image (pressed state) is located in a folder called `mania/` and the image name is `keyLD`.
-   This similarly applies to the other columns, but only when playing with 5 keys.

### Notes (basic)

*Not to be confused with: [Keys](#keys-(basic))*

Notes queue the player on when to press the correct key. Like the keys, there are only three images that are used:

-   `mania-note1.png` (referred next as "1")
-   `mania-note2.png` (referred next as "2")
-   `mania-noteS.png` (referred next as "S")

> 1, 2, and S are used based on their respected columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1, 2, and S are used based on their respective columns.
```

```

To break that down, let's look at the first column, `NoteImage0`:

```
NoteImage0: mania/left/note
```

-   `NoteImage0` says that the first column's note image is located in a folder called `mania/left/` and the image prefix name is `note`.
-   Since notes can be animated, the game client automatically check to see if an animation was supplied.
-   This similarly applies to the other columns, but only when playing with 5 keys.

### Hold notes (basic)

Hold notes have three parts: a head, length, and tail. The head queues the player on when to press and hold the hold note, while the tail queues the player on when to release it (since releasing hold notes is also important in regards to scoring). By default, there are only nine images that are used:

-   `mania-note1H.png` (referred next as "1H")
-   `mania-note1L.png` (referred next as "1L")
-   `mania-note1T.png` (referred next as "1T")
-   `mania-note2H.png` (referred next as "2H")
-   `mania-note2L.png` (referred next as "2L")
-   `mania-note2T.png` (referred next as "2T")
-   `mania-noteSH.png` (referred next as "ST")
-   `mania-noteSL.png` (referred next as "SL")
-   `mania-noteST.png` (referred next as "SH")

> Like notes, 1H, 1L, 1T, 2H, 2L, 2T, ST, SL, and SH are used based on their respected columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like notes, 1H, 1L, 1T, 2H, 2L, 2T, ST, SL, and SH are used based on their respective columns.
```

If there are two stages, the combo number will be displayed on both stages (this cannot be changed).

### Hit scores

Like combo numbers, hit scores are centred horizontally in the stage. The vertical positioning can be changed by setting `ScorePosition`.

By default, if there are two stages, the hit scores from each stage will be displayed on the both stages. To change this behaviour (have hit scores display on the stage the note was hit on), set `SeparateScore` to `1`.

### Centring the stage

*Notice: Centring of the stage will be inconsistent between differing ratio aspects. You may want to provide extra download links for other common ratio aspects.*

To centre the osu!mania stage, use the following equation to set `ColumnStart`.

`ColumnStart = ((480 * screenWidth / screenHeight) - (columnWidths + ColumnSpacings)) / 2`.

-   `screenWidth` = the game client's width (or the ratio aspect width)
-   `screenHeight` = the game client's height (or the ratio aspect height)
-   `columnWidths` = sum of `ColumnWidth`
-   `ColumnSpacings` = sum of `ColumnSpacing`

> *Notice: You will need to round the number to make it an integer. Because of this, the stage may be off by a unit to the left or right. In most cases, this will not be very noticiable.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Notice: You will need to round the number to make it an integer. Because of this, the stage may be off by a unit to the left or right. In most cases, this will not be very noticeable.*
```
